Registry team access bulk (#1047)
wandb/docs: content/guides/models/registry/configure_registry.md

weight: 3
---

> Registry admins can [configure registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#add-a-user-or-a-team-to-a-registry" >}}), or [remove users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#remove-a-user-or-team-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry by configuring the registry's settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Registry admin can [configure registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#add-a-user-or-a-team-to-a-registry" >}}), or [remove users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#remove-a-user-or-team-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry by configuring the registry's settings.
```
I wonder if there can be a top-level "Manage a registry's users" heading that can contain add, remove, (and modify)? I suspecrt "By configuring the registry's settings" can be removed, but I don't feel strongly about it.

> Registry admins can [configure registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#add-a-user-or-a-team-to-a-registry" >}}), or [remove users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#remove-a-user-or-team-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry by configuring the registry's settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Registry admin can [configure registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#add-a-user-or-a-team-to-a-registry" >}}), and [remove users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#remove-a-user-or-team-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry.
```
I think it reads better in the singular. I changed the "or" to an "and" because the admin can do all of them. And the following sections show how to do these actions (by modifying the Registry's settings) so I removed that clause. WDYT?

> ## Add a user or a team to a registry

Reviewer: Manage registry access?

> ## Add a user or a team to a registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a user or team to a registry
```

> Registry admins can add individual users or entire teams to a registry. To add a user or team to a registry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Registry admin can add individual users or entire teams to a registry. To add a user or team to a registry:
```
Only one Registry admin is doing a given action at a given time, so I really prefer stickoing with singular, but I will leave it up to you if plural is a convention here.

> Registry admins can add individual users or entire teams to a registry. To add a user or team to a registry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Registry admin can add users or teams to a registry:
```

> 1. Navigate to the Registry App at https://wandb.ai/registry/.

Reviewer: Can we just say "Navigate to <IURL>" without referring to it as an App? Maybe that's a convention.

2. Select the registry you want to add a user or team to.

> 3. Click on the gear icon on the upper right hand corner to access the registry settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the Registry's gear icon on the upper right of the page.
```

> 4. Navigate to the **Registry access** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Registry access** section, click **Add access**..
```

> 4. Navigate to the **Registry access** section.
> 5. Click on the **Add access** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the to the **Registry access** sectio, click **Add access**.
```

> 6. Specify one or more user names, emails, or the team names to the **Include users and teams** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To add a user or team to the Registry, add their username, email, or team name to **Include users and teams**..
```

> 7. Click **Add access**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click **Add access**.
```

{{< img src="/images/registry/add_team_registry.gif" alt="Animation of using the UI to add teams and individual users to a registry" >}}

> See [Registry role permissions]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#registry-role-permissions" >}}) for more information about registry roles. To edit roles, see [Configure user roles in a registry]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about [configuring user roles in a registry]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), or [Registry role permissions]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#registry-role-permissions" >}}) . 
```

## Remove a user or team from a registry

> Registry admins can remove individual users or entire teams from a registry. To remove a user or team from a registry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Registry admin can remove users or teams from a registry:
```

> Registry admins can add individual users or entire teams to a registry. To add a user or team to a registry:

Reviewer 2: can we add a gif which shows the "add a team" workflow, instead of individual? This will be the main one users on Registry, who are all enterprise customers, will be using so I think it is higher priority to highlight that workflow. 

It would also be good to note that when you add a team to the registry, any updates to that team are reflected in the registry access control as well. i.e if I added a team A to a restricted registry, and later on in team settings removed a user from team A, if the user tries to see that registry after being removed from the team, or use the API to access anything from the restricted registry, they won't be able to. So customers only need to keep their team rosters up to date.

> 1. Navigate to the Registry App at https://wandb.ai/registry/.

Reviewer: Similar feedback as the Add Users section here.

2. Select the registry you want to remove a user from.
3. Click on the gear icon on the upper right hand corner to access the registry settings.
4. Navigate to the **Registry access** section and type in the username, email, or team you want to remove.
5. Click the **Delete** button.

{{% alert %}}

> Removing a user from a team also removes that user's access to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless they have access to a Registry by other permissions, when you remove a user from a team with access to a Registry, they also lose access to the Registry.
```

{{% /alert %}}

> ## Registry role permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Registry roles
```

Each user in a registry has a *registry role*, which determines what they can do in that registry. 

> W&B automatically assigns default registry roles to a user or team when they are added to a registry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
W&B automatically assigns a default registry roles to a user or team when they are added to a registry. 
```

| Entity | Default registry role |
| ----- | ----- |
| Team | Viewer |
| User (non admin) | Viewer |
| Org admin | Admin |

> Registry admins can assign or modify roles for users and teams in a registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Registry admin can assign or modify roles for users and teams in the registry.
```

See [Configure user roles in a registry]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}) for more information.

{{% alert title="W&B role types" %}}
There are two different types of roles in W&B: [Team roles]({{< relref "/guides/models/app/settings-page/teams.md#team-role-and-permissions" >}}) and [Registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#registry-role-permissions" >}}).

Your role in a team has no impact or relationship to your role in any registry.
{{% /alert %}}

The proceeding table lists the different roles a user can have and their permissions:

> | Permission                                                     | Permission Group | Viewer | Member | Admin | 

Reviewer: I think this would be better with Permission Group first and "Read" only for the first one, with the following ones empty, then the same for Create etc. WDYT? Like a rowwpan without needing to write a HTML table. I think you want to summarize "Viewers can ...." vs "Members can..." vs "Admins can.."

| Link a new artifact                                            | Update           |        |   X    |   X   |
| Edit allowed types list for a registry                         | Update           |        |   X    |   X   |
| Edit custom registry name                                      | Update           |        |   X    |   X   |
| Delete a collection                                            | Delete           |        |   X    |   X   |
| Delete an automation                                           | Delete           |        |   X    |   X   |
| Unlink an artifact from a registry                             | Delete           |        |   X    |   X   |
| Edit accepted artifact types for a registry                    | Admin            |        |        |   X   |
| Change registry visibility (Organization or Restricted)        | Admin            |        |        |   X   |
| Add users to a registry                                        | Admin            |        |        |   X   |
| Assign or change a user's role in a registry                   | Admin            |        |        |   X   |

### Inherited permissions

> A user's permission in a registry depends on the highest level of privilege assigned to that user, whether through a team or individual. 

Reviewer: Previously Registry was always capitalized, I believe.
```suggestion
A user's permission in a registry depends on the highest level of privilege assigned to that user, whether individually or by team membership.
```

> For example, suppose a registry admin adds a user called Nico to Registry A and assigns them a `Viewer` registry role. The registry admin then adds a team called Foundation Model Team to Registry A and assigns Foundation Model Team a `Member` registry role. Nico is a member of Foundation Model Team.

Reviewer: We are in a UI so I suspect that the roles should be bold rather than code font. I thin, this example would be better as a numbered list.

> Since Nico is a member of Foundation Model Team, W&B grants Nico `Member` registry role permissions because `Member` registry roles have higher level of permissions than `Viewer`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nico is a member of the Foundation Model Team, which is a **Member** of the Registry. Because **Member** has more permission than **Viewer**, W&B grants Nico the **Member** role.
```

The proceeding table shows the highest level of permission in the event of a conflict:

> | Registry role A | Registry role B  | Inherited registry role |

Reviewer: I don't think we talked about Registry B before?

> ### Inherited permissions

Reviewer 2: Well explained - I see you have a note to add an image so as long as we do that, it should be super clear :)

> A user's permission in a registry depends on the highest level of privilege assigned to that user, whether through a team or directly. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A user's permission in a registry depends on the highest level of privilege assigned to that user, whether through a team or individual. 
```

| ------ | ------ | ------ | 
| Viewer | Viewer | Viewer |
| Member | Viewer | Member |
| Admin  | Viewer | Admin  | 

> W&B displays the highest level of permissions next to the name of the user in the event of a conflict.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a conflict, W&B displays the highest level of permissions next to the name of the user.
```

> For example, suppose a registry admin adds a user called Nico to Registry A and assigns them a `Viewer` registry role. The registry admin then adds a team called Team Awesome to Registry A and assigns Team Awesome a `Member` registry role. Nico is a member of Team Awesome.

Reviewer 2: maybe we can use enterprise friendlier names such as Foundation Model Team, or something more connected to what an actual team using a registry might be?

{{< img src="/images/registry/role_conflict.png" alt="A user inherits a Member role because they are part of a team." >}}

> For example, in the preceding image Ishita inherits `Member` role privileges because she is a member of smle-reg-team-1.

Reviewer: I think Member should be bold rather than code font, and should probably not refer to an actual employee and an actual role in the W&B org, right?

## Configure registry roles
1. Navigate to the Registry App at https://wandb.ai/registry/.
2. Select the registry you want to configure.

> 3. Click on the gear icon on the upper right hand corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the gear icon on the upper right hand corner.
```

> 3. Click on the gear icon on the upper right hand corner.

Reviewer: A similar edit to line 18 or so would remove a step here too.

4. Scroll to the **Registry members and roles** section.

> 5. Within the **Member** field, search for the user you want to edit permissions for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Within the **Member** field, search for the user or team you want to edit permissions for.
```

> 6. Click on the user's role within the **Registry role** column. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the **Registry role** column, click the user's role. 
```

> 7. From the dropdown, select the role you want to assign to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. From the dropdown, select the user's new role.
```

weight: 3
---

> Add, remove, and manage registry roles for teams and individual users in a registry by configuring a registry's settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registry administrators can [restrict visibility]({{< relref "#restrict-visibility-to-a-registry" >}}), [configure registry roles]({{< relref "#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "#add-a-user-or-team-to-a-registry" >}}), or [remove users]({{< relref "#remove-a-user-or-team-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry by configuring the registry's settings.
```

{{% alert %}}

> Only registry administrators can [restrict visibility]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#restrict-visibility-to-a-registry" >}}), [configure registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#add-a-user-from-a-registry" >}}), or [remove users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#remove-a-user-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry.

Reviewer 3: **question (non-blocking):** I'm using the [preview link](https://registry-team-access-bulk.docodile.pages.dev/guides/registry/configure_registry/#restrict-visibility-to-a-registry) you shared yesterday and the hyperlinks aren't working. Is that expected?

Author: It is not. Good catch :)

Reviewer 3: is there a new preview link? the hyperlinks are still not working

Reviewer 3: oh nevermind, i found it above! sorry for the ping!

> Only registry administrators can [restrict visibility]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#restrict-visibility-to-a-registry" >}}), [configure registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#add-a-user-from-a-registry" >}}), or [remove users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#remove-a-user-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry.

Reviewer: I think you can avoid the admonition by combining this with the previous sentence. WDYT?

{{% /alert %}}

> ## Add a user or a team to a registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a user or team to a registry
```

Registry administrators can add individual users or entire teams to a registry. To add a user or team to a registry:

1. Navigate to the Registry App at https://wandb.ai/registry/.
2. Select the registry you want to add a user or team to.
3. Click on the gear icon on the upper right hand corner to access the registry settings.
4. Navigate to the **Registry access** section.
5. Click on the **Add access** button.

> 6. Add a user name, email, or the name of a team to the **Include users and teams** field.

Reviewer 3: **nitpick:** It might be worth mentioning that you can select multiple users/teams at a time and add them to the registry

7. Click **Add access**.

> W&B automatically assigns users a `Viewer` role by default. To edit a user's role, see [Configure user roles in a registry]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-user-roles-in-a-registry" >}}).

Reviewer 3: **(blocking):** Sorry I didn't catch this in round1. But these are the default roles that get assigned when you add a user or team to the registry.

- Team -> Viewer role
- User -> If the user is an organization admin, they become an Admin in the registry. Else, Viewer.

## Remove a user or team from a registry

> Registry administrators can remove individual users or entire teams to a registry. To remove a user or team from a registry:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Registry administrators can remove individual users or entire teams from a registry. To remove a user or team from a registry:
```

1. Navigate to the Registry App at https://wandb.ai/registry/.
2. Select the registry you want to remove a user from.
3. Click on the gear icon on the upper right hand corner to access the registry settings.
4. Navigate to the **Registry access** section and type in the username, email, or team you want to remove.
5. Click the **Delete** button.

## Registry role permissions

> Each user in a registry has a specific *registry role*. Registry roles determine what users can do in a given registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each user in a registry has a *registry role*, which determines what they can do in that registry.
```

Author: Another ESL question: I was taught that, to make the life easier of ESL folks, to use plentiful "thats" as opposed to "which".  Since "which" can be confusing for them.

> Registry administrators can assign or modify team and user roles in a registry. See [Configure user roles in a registry]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-user-roles-in-a-registry" >}}) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A registry admin can assign or modify roles for users and teams in a registry. See [Configure user roles in a registry]({{< relref "#configure-user-roles-in-a-registry" >}}) for more information.
```

Author: Are we using "admin" or "administrators"?

Reviewer 3: I had this question too

Author: The winner is "admin"!

> {{% alert title="W&B role types" %}}

Reviewer 3: Do we have docs on Team roles vs Project roles already? Wondering if that part of the docs describes role assignments in those 2 scopes as role types. If they exist already, it might be better to maintain consistency. Wdyt? 

But basically, team roles and registry roles are just different contexts in which users can be assigned roles, and they are independent of each other.

Author: I don't believe we have a doc on team roles vs project roles... 

For my own understanding, where can I find more info on this? :)?

Reviewer 3: I think this covers it in some sense https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/hosting/iam/access-management/restricted-projects/#project-level-roles, but lmk offline if you'd like to sync on it!

> There are two different types of roles in W&B: [Team roles]({{< relref "/guides/models/app/settings-page/teams.md#team-role-and-permissions" >}}) and [Registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#registry-role-permissions" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two different types of roles in W&B: [Team roles]({{< relref "/guides/models/app/settings-page/teams.md#team-role-and-permissions" >}}) and [Registry roles]({{< relref "#registry-role-permissions" >}}).
```

Author: Link doesn't work unless I have the filename

Reviewer: Are you sure? https://gohugo.io/content-management/cross-references/

> Your role in a team has no impact or relationship on your role in any registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your role in a team has no impact or relationship to your role in any registry.
```

{{% /alert %}}

> A user can have different registry roles in different registries. For example, a user can have a `Viewer` role in "Registry A" and a `Member` role in the "Registry B".

Reviewer: I feel like this entire sentence is obvious and can probably be omitted -- we have just said that a registry has roles.

> 

Reviewer 3: I know this is not a part of your changes, but would it be possible to remove `Owner` from the permissions table below? 

- `Owner` is not really a role, and
- By default, owners get admin permissions but their role can now be modified to something lower. So, in reality, the owner assignment is just a field populated so that there's someone who's accountable for it.

Wdyt @noaleetz ?

Reviewer 2: Yes - I think this is a good point. For context, we historically added to preserve similar concept of an owner as a project and so there is a label to a specific user who created and thereby owns the registry (now though you can change the owner so as Ishita said it is a way to point to 1 user who is accountable for it so that people know who to reach it out to). 

I think b/c we added it to the table it made it seem like a separate role, maybe w more permissions that admin, and it created some confusion. 

I would feel good w removing it, and maybe instead we can add a section on the doc as to "what is a registry owner" to explain what Ishita wrote about, and that it can be modified and how to modify, and that is meant to provide a name for someone to reach out to.

Author: Gladly will remove :)

Author: @noaleetz I'm creating a second ticket for adding info on "what is a registry owner" https://wandb.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-1259

weight: 3
---

Add, remove, and manage registry roles for teams and individual users in a registry by configuring a registry's settings.

{{% alert %}}

> Only team or registry administrators can [restrict visibility]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#restrict-visibility-to-a-registry" >}}), [configure registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}), [add users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#add-a-user-from-a-registry" >}}), or [remove users]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#remove-a-user-from-a-registry" >}}) from a registry.

Reviewer 3: This is incorrect. Only registry admins can configure users' roles in the registry. However, organization admins can add themselves to a registry to get Admin access to it.

{{% /alert %}}

## Add a user or a team to a registry

> Team or registry administrators can add individual users or entire teams to a registry. To add a user or team to a registry:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Registry administrators can add individual users or entire teams to a registry. To add a user or team to a registry:
```

1. Navigate to the Registry App at https://wandb.ai/registry/.
2. Select the registry you want to add a user or team to.
3. Click on the gear icon on the upper right hand corner to access the registry settings.
4. Navigate to the **Registry access** section.
5. Click on the **Add access** button.
6. Add a user name, email, or the name of a team to the **Include users and teams** field.
7. Click **Add access**.

> W&B attempts to assign users added to a registry a `Viewer` registry role by default. If the user has a [team role]({{< relref "/guides/models/app/settings-page/teams.md#team-role-and-permissions" >}}) in the organization, W&B assigns the user the highest level of privilege as their registry role. See [Resolve role conflicts]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#resolve-role-conflicts" >}}) for more information.

Reviewer 3: Registry roles actually have nothing to do with the user's role in a team. A user can get a role in a registry if one of their teams is assigned a role. 

If a user already has a role in the registry, and a team that they are a member of gets assigned another role, their permission set includes the permissions given by both roles. 

Feel free to re-word this, I just wanted to explain how this works!

Author: Thanks! Re worded in next commit :)
